Welcome back to Movie Recaps.Today I will
show you a crime, thriller, horror film from
2016, entitled Don't Breathe.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
An old man is dragging a young woman by the
hair trough a street that seems to be part
of an abandoned neighborhood.
A group of young people, two men and a woman,
unlock a door from a fancy house.
One of them stops the alarm before it can
go off.
The same person, who looks the most nervous,
repeats their rules as they enter the house
- about not taking any cash and grabbing only
things that are below 10G's.
They are in and out of the house fast.
Before they leave, they switch the alarm back
on and break the front door window, which
activates the alarm sound as they escape.
Later, they're driving in their car, smoking
pot, chatting.
The nervous guy starts telling the other two
about another of their friends that's leaving
town.
They don't seem phased, saying everyone leaves
Detroit.
Even they were planning to leave for California
after the next robbery, with no plans of coming
back.
The girl tells the nervous guy to come with
them, but he says he can't leave his dad.
They drop him of at his house, he goes in
and heads straight to his dad's study room,
where he opens a drawer and returns the key
from the house they just robbed.
His dad works in home security.
The third guy, called Money, goes to fence
the things they got in the robbery and doesn't
get as much as he hoped.
He argues a little with the guy that buys
the things from him, but the guy tells him
that if he wants money, he should steal money.
He gives him a tip about a new job.
Money tells his friends all about it.
It's a house that belongs to a loner veteran,
secured by the nervous guys' dad, and is in
a part of the city that's abandoned.
That doesn't raise to much confidence in the
other two, so Money explains why they should
rob it.
Apparently, the vets daughter was ran over
by a rich girl and her family gave him a huge
settlement of at least 300K.
The girl goes along with the idea much easier
than the nervous guy, Alex.
He's worried about the consequences of grabbing
such a large amount, to both them and his
dad's company.
He walks away.
Later that day, the girl - Rocky, sends Alex
a text message begging him to do the job for
her so she could get someone out.
While Alex researches the vet, Rocky is at
home with her little sister, her mom and her
mom's new boyfriend.
Him and her mom are horrible.
It becomes apparent that the message Rocky
sent Alex was clearly about her sister, when
she starts asking her if she wants to go to
California with her.
She want to get her sister out of their terrible
family situation.
Alex, Rocky and Money go to steak out the
vets house and neighborhood.
Alex and Rocky remain in the car alone.
She shares a story from her childhood with
him and Alex tells her that he will come with
them to California when they finish the job.
Money comes back in the car and confirms what
they knew about the house, when a Rottweiler
dog jumps at the girls window.
An old man calls for the dog and Money tells
them that that is the vet.
They realize he's blind and have a small argument
about how unethical it would be to rob a blind
guy.
That night, they come back to the neighborhood.
The lights are off in the vets house.
They take care of the dog first by feeding
it meat with some kind of drug.
When they go to open the front door, they
realize that the keys Alex had taken from
his dad's security company don't work.
They check for a side door or a window, but
find only a small window which only Rocky
can go trough.
She enters the house and manages to stop the
alarm with a remote that Alex gives her.
She sees framed pictures of the vets dead
daughter on the mantle.
Meanwhile, Alex and Money are waiting for
her to let them in.
Once inside the house they start going trough
it, looking for the safe with the money.
Rocky looks trough the closet.
Money goes on the next floor to chloroform
the old vet, so he doesn't wake up.
He finds him sleeping in his room with the
sounds of a video of his daughter playing,
when she was a child.
The vet wakes up and turns off the TV, but
Money manages to set of the gas.
He comes down and the three of them find a
bolted door, thinking the money must be stashed
somewhere behind it.
Money takes out a gun and thinking that the
vet is sleeping, blasts the bolt from the
door.
Alex, frightened about how having a gun there
changes things, decides to leave.
He takes his shoes from the stack and goes.
Money and Rocky open the door, but the vet
appears out of nowhere, asking who's there.
The two of them fall silent, but he hears
Money and starts following his voice as he
tries to first lie to and then reason with
the old man.
He shoots at him once to scare him, but that
doesn't stop him.
Alex hears the shot outside.
The vet grabs the gun from his hands and shoots
him in the head.
He doesn't know the girl is there too.
She hides in the closet.
Alex walks into the house and almost bumps
into the vet, nevertheless dodging him as
he runs around the house bolting the doors
and the windows.
He hides in the bathroom and texts with Rocky.
She tells him where she's hiding and he goes
after her.
Before Alex gets there though, the vet comes
into the closet, takes a part of the dry wall
to reveal the safe, enters his code, which
is fully visible to Rocky, and checks if the
money's all there.
After he finds out that it hasn't been taken,
he closes the safe and walks of, still unaware
that Rocky is inside the closet too.
Alex comes in the closet and suggests they
should call the cops.
Rocky disagrees.
She opens the safe and takes the money, to
his surprise.
Alex thinks there are a million dollars there.
They decide to leave trough the door that
was bolted, thinking it would lead them trough
the basement and to a hatch that leads to
the yard.
Before they could go trough the door, the
vet appears from inside and begins dragging
Money's body to a different part of the house.
After a little scare, he continues doing what
he was doing, which gives them ample space
to run trough the door.
At this point he still doesn't know that they're
there, until moments later when he finds their
shoes.
He goes to check on the safe and realizes
the money is gone.
Meanwhile, Alex and Rocky are going trough
the basement.
They are shocked to find a girl roped up with
army cords.
The moment she moves, a ring attached to her
notifies the vet that there is something going
on in the basement.
While there, Alex and Rocky find out that
the girl is the same one that ran over his
daughter.
Rocky decides to help her, no matter what
she had done.
They try to go trough the basement hatch,
but the vet is waiting for them in front of
it and starts shooting.
He kills the girl that killed his daughter.
As Alex and Rocky are running, the vet is
calling to his baby, saying that his baby
is dead, while holding the body of the dead
girl.
He then chases after them in the huge basement,
after he turns off the electricity.
Since they are also blinded in a way, he almost
manages to catch them and strangle Alex, but
the guy escapes with Rocky again.
Outside of the basement, the Rottweiler, who
is now fully awake, is waiting for them.
The dog chases after them on the second floor
and corners them in one of the rooms.
The windows there are barred and it seems
that they have no way to escape.
Meanwhile, the vet catches up to them and
is outside of the room with his dog and a
gun.
Rocky and Alex try to find a way to escape,
when she sees a vent on the wall.
He tells her to go trough it and that he will
keep the door safe.
As she enters the vent, the old man and the
dog break trough the doors and attack Alex.
He falls trough the window onto a celling
window, one level down.
Back at the room, the dog follows Rocky in
the vent by her smell and chases after her
trough the shaft.
She jumps into a vertical shaft to escape
it.
The vet realizes where Alex is and shoots
the window, hurling him down on the first
floor.
Alex runs again, but he catches up to him
in the room where he keeps his gardening tools
and where he had stashed Money's body.
He beats Alex unconscious and stabs him with
giant gardening scissors.
Rocky wakes up in the shaft, hurt and in pain.
She starts crawling trough the vents again
when she spots two openings - one going down
in the house and the other outside the house.
As she tries to break trough the bars at the
opening leading outside of the house, the
vet grabs her from the other one.
Rocky wakes up in the basement.
She's tied up the same way as the other girl
was.
The vet is there and she begs him to let her
go, saying she won't tell anyone about the
girl.
He explains, however, that holding the girl
in the basement wasn't about torture or punishment
for what she had done to his daughter.
It was his crazy idea that, since she took
his child from him, it would only be fair
she should give him a child in return.
He'd been holding her there because she was
pregnant with his baby.
With his insane logic, he comes to the conclusion
that Rocky is to blame for her death and she
should be held accountable.
In the meantime, Alex wakes up.
The vet hadn't stabbed him, but Money's body.
He tricks the dog into the room and locks
it in.
Then, he unlocks the front door.
Back in the basement, the vet is heating something
up.
He tells Rocky that she would now have to
bear his child in the girls stead.
But since his not a rapist, he wouldn't force
himself on her, just his sperm.
It's revealed that he was heating up his sperm,
so he could inject it in her.
Fortunately, Alex bursts into the basement
at the right moment and the vet is unable
to do what he wanted to do to Rocky.
Alex chains the vet up and releases Rocky,
who kicks the heck out of the old man, among
other things.
Alex tells Rocky that calling the police now
is out of the question, that they should just
leave the vet chained up in the basement.
The two of them take the money and leave the
basement, going to the front door.
The moment Alex opens the door he gets shot
by the vet, who succeeded in breaking free.
It's already daylight outside, as Rocky starts
to run.
The vet sends his Rottweiler after her.
After a long chase, she finally gets to Money's
car.
But when the dog catches up to her she drops
the bag with the money outside.
Moreover, once in the car she realizes that
she doesn't have the key.
Rocky traps the dog inside the car in a clever
way, but as soon as she is out and grabs the
bag, the vet grabs her again and starts pulling
her toward his house by her hair.
When they get there, Rocky finds the remote
for the alarm and activates it.
The sound completely disorients the vet and
she manages to push him down in the basement.
Thinking that he's dead, she grabs the money
and runs, as the police is pulling over to
the house.
Rocky is sitting with her little sister in
the bar of an airport.
She hears the news on the bar TV, with the
news anchor talking about what had happened.
The vet had survived the fall.
However, he didn't mention the fact that she
was involved in the robbery as well, or that
the money was missing.
Rocky is free to live her best life with her
sister
in California.
Maybe.